SRVLOGIC-483: DI, JS and Workflows migration from OSL 1.34.0 to OSL 1.35.0 (#115)
openshift-knative/docs: modules/serverless-logic/pages/cloud/operator/upgrade-serverless-operator/upgrade_1_34_0_to_1_35_0.adoc

= Upgrade {operator_name} from 1.34.0 to 1.35.0
:compat-mode!:
// Metadata:
:description: Upgrade OSL Operator from 1.34.0 to 1.35.0
:keywords: kogito, sonataflow, workflow, serverless, operator, kubernetes, minikube, openshift, containers
// links

:openshift_operator_install_url: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.html
:openshift_operator_uninstall_url: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/operators/admin/olm-deleting-operators-from-cluster.html
:kubernetes_operator_install_url: https://operatorhub.io/how-to-install-an-operator
:kubernetes_operator_uninstall_url: https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/uninstall-operator/
:operatorhub_url: https://operatorhub.io/

This guide describes how to upgrade the {operator_name} 1.34.0 installed in an OpenShift cluster to the version 1.35.0.

.Prerequisites
* An OpenShift cluster with admin privileges and `oc` installed.

== Procedure

To upgrade an OSL 1.34.0 installation to the OSL 1.35.0 version, you must execute this procedure:

=== Overall upgrade procedure

We recommend that you read all the steps and understand the procedure before executing.

> Interested parties might automate the procedure according to their convenience or infrastructure, for example, a particular user might have all the SonataFlow CRDs in a github repository, which might help considerably to implement an automation, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interested parties might automate the procedure according to their convenience or infrastructure, for example, a particular user might have all the SonataFlow CRDs in a GitHub repository, which might help considerably to implement automation, etc.
```

. Execute the steps `1`, `2` and `3` of the upgrade for every workflow with the <<workflows_preview_profile, preview profile>>.
. Execute the step `1` of the upgrade for every workflow with the <<workflows_gitops_profile, gitops profile>>.
. Execute the step `1` of the <<data_index_upgrade, Data Index>> upgrade.
. Execute the step `1` of the <<jobs_service_upgrade, Jobs Service>> upgrade.
. Upgrade the OSL operator to the version 1.35.0 using the OpenShift management console, and wait until the new version is running, <<check_if_operator_is_updated, see>>.
. Finalize the <<data_index_upgrade, Data Index>> upgrade by continuing from step `2`.
. Finalize the <<jobs_service_upgrade, Jobs Service>> upgrade by continuing from step `2`.
. Finalize the upgrade for the workflows with the <<workflows_gitops_profile, gitops profile>> by continuing from step `2`.
. Finalize the upgrade for the workflows with the <<workflows_preview_profile, preview profile>> by continuing from step `4`.
. Finalize the upgrade for the workflows with the <<workflows_dev_profile, dev profile>> by continuing from step `2`.

[#workflows_dev_profile]
==== Workflows with the `dev` profile

> Every workflow with the `dev` profile must be deleted before applying the operator upgrade to OSL 1.35.0, and re-deployed after the upgrade is completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must delete every workflow with the `dev` profile before applying the operator upgrade to OSL 1.35.0 and re-deployed after the upgrade is completed.
```

For every workflow `my-workflow` with the `dev` profile you must:

*Pre-operator upgrade steps:*

> . oc delete -f <my-workflow.yaml>  -n  <target_namespace>

Reviewer: Instead of directly adding the command as a step you can mention something like this: 

```
Delete the workflow by using the following command: 
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete -f <my-workflow.yaml> -n <target_namespace>
----
```

Author: added!

+

> Be sure that you have a copy of the corresponding SonataFlow CRD, as well as any other k8s resource created for that workflow, for example, the user provided ConfigMap with the application.properties in cases you are using custom properties configurations, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that you have a copy of the corresponding SonataFlow CRD, as well as any other k8s resource created for that workflow, for example, the user provided ConfigMap with the application.properties in cases you are using custom properties configurations, etc.
```

*Post-operator upgrade steps:*

[start=2]

> . Re-deploy the workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Re-deploy the workflow.
```

+

> Be sure that any k8s resource for that workflow, for example, the user provided ConfigMap with the application.properties, is created before you re-deploy the workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that any k8s resource for that workflow, for example, the user-provided ConfigMap with the `application.properties`, is created before you re-deploy the workflow.
```

[#workflows_preview_profile]
==== Workflows with the `preview` profile

> Every workflow with the `preview` profile must be deleted before applying the operator upgrade to OSL 1.35.0, and re-deployed after the upgrade is completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every workflow with the `preview` profile must be deleted before applying the operator upgrade to OSL 1.35.0 and re-deployed after the upgrade is completed.
```

For every workflow `my-workflow` with the `preview` profile you must:

*Pre-operator upgrade steps:*

> . If the workflow is configured to use persistence, you must backup the workflow database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If the workflow is configured to use persistence, you must back up the workflow database.
```

Be sure that your database backup includes the database objects, and not only the table's information.

> . oc delete <my-workflow.yaml> -n <target_namespace>

Reviewer: Same as above 

Delete the workflow by using the following command: 
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete -f <my-workflow.yaml> -n <target_namespace>
----

+

> Be sure that you have a copy of the corresponding SonataFlow CRD, as well as any other k8s resource created for that workflow, for example, the user provided ConfigMap with the application.properties in cases you are using custom properties configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that you have a copy of the corresponding SonataFlow CRD, as well as any other k8s resource created for that workflow, for example, the user provided ConfigMap with the `application.properties` in case you are using custom properties configurations.
```

. If the workflow is configured to use persistence, you must execute the xref:attachment$cloud/operator/upgrade-serverless-operator/migrate-workflow-db-from_1.34.0_to_1.35.0.sql[migrate-workflow-db-from_1.34.0_to_1.35.0.sql] script in the workflow database.

*Post-operator upgrade steps:*

[start=4]
. If the workflow is configured to use persistence, you must add the following property in the workflow ConfigMap that contains the application.properties:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
 labels:
   app: my-workflow
 name: my-workflow-props
data:
 application.properties: |
   kie.flyway.enabled=true
----
+
Be sure that any k8s resource for that workflow, for example, the user provided ConfigMap with the application.properties, is created before you re-deploy the workflow.

[#workflows_gitops_profile]
==== Workflows with the `gitops` profile

> Every workflow with the `gitops` profile must be scaled to zero before applying the operator upgrade to OSL 1.35.0, and rescaled to 1 after the upgrade is completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every workflow with the `gitops` profile must be scaled to zero before applying the operator upgrade to OSL 1.35.0 and rescaled to 1 after the upgrade is completed.
```

+
All the data index replicasets for the OSL 1.34.0 must be deleted.
+
You can see all the replicasets with a query like this
+
oc get replicasets -o custom-columns=Name:metadata.name,Image:spec.template.spec.containers[*].image -n <target_namespace>
+
Example output:
+

[source, bash]
----
Name                                                Image
sonataflow-platform-data-index-service-1111111111   registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-data-index-postgresql-rhel8:1.34.0

sonataflow-platform-data-index-service-222222222   registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-data-index-postgresql-rhel8:1.35.0
----
+
Following the example above, the replicaset sonataflow-platform-data-index-service-1111111111 must be deleted:
+
oc delete replicaset sonataflow-platform-data-index-service-1111111111 -n <target_namespace>

[#jobs_service_upgrade]
==== Jobs Service upgrade

Every jobs service deployment must be upgraded with the following procedure:

*Pre-operator upgrade steps:*

. Backup the jobs service database. (including the database objects, and not only the tables information)

*Post-operator upgrade steps:*

[start=2]

> . When the OSL Operator 1.35.0 upgrade was executed, and the new OSL Operator Pod has started, every jobs service Deployment must be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. When the OSL Operator 1.35.0 upgrade was executed, and the new OSL Operator Pod started, every job's service Deployment must be deleted.
```
